# ds5110_final_project
DS 5110: Big Data Systems Final Project

Given that our matched project interests were healthcare and finance, we decided to examine emergency department triage data using the Spark framework. From a business standpoint, mistriaging leads to unnecessary waste of scarce medical resources and financial loss for both healthcare providers and patients. Therefore, through the development of triage algorithms the triage decision-making process can be automated and assist medical practitioners in making more clinically and financially effective decisions. We are using a publicly available dataset, which comes from a research paper by Moon et al. (2019) titled “Triage accuracy and causes of mistriage using the Korean Triage and Acuity Scale [(KTAS)”; the KTAS is a manual scoring method currently being used to make triage decisions in emergency departments. There are 24 total features, both categorical and numeric, gathered from emergency department visits of 1,267 patients. Triage care for each patient is classified as 0: correct triage, 1: over-triage, and 2: under-triage after comparing a healthcare practitioner’s assessment relative to the true KTAS score. Since there are three labels available, we will leverage this dataset to address a multi-class classification problem to predict the efficacy of a physician’s triage plan. We plan to use various machine learning algorithms to build and compare classification models to see which model ultimately performs the best. We hypothesize that “Injury”, “Chief_complain”, and “Pain” might be the most important variables for this classification task.
